title: Biography
url: biography
categories: about-me
meta: Biography of Luis Pedro Coelho, a postdoctoral researcher at EMBL.
---

Biography
=========

Also see my `resume </resume>`__ and `CV [PDF format] </files/vita.pdf>`__

Shorter Version
...............

Luis Pedro Coelho is postdoctoral researcher at the European Molecular Biology
Laboratory (EMBL). He works in metagenomics and bioimage informatics (the
application of computer vision to biological samples). Luis has a PhD in
computational biology from Carnegie Mellon University, a BS and MS in computer
science from Instituto Superior Técnico. He is a Fulbright Scholar, a Siebel
Scholar, and has won multiple awards for academic or research excellence.

Outside academia, Luis has been involved in theatre (having produced the
student group at IST and starred in several productions), as well as received a
prize in a short story competition. He has taught computer usage in
underprivileged neighbourhoods and designed Webpages for nonprofits. In Summer
2010, was in Mozambique, volunteering with local organisations there (see
`beiraproject.org <http://beiraproject.org>`_).

Luis can be found at `luispedro.org <http://luispedro.org>`__ and blogs
at `metarabbit.wordpress.com <http://metarabbit.wordpress.com>`__.

Longer Version (Academic)
.........................

Luis Pedro Coelho is postdoctoral researcher at the European Molecular Biology
Laboratory (EMBL). He works in metagenomics and bioimage informatics (the
application of computer vision to biological samples).

Luis holds a PhD in computational biology from Carnegie Mellon University. His
doctoral research consisted of modeling images from fluorescent microsocpy. The
models he developed integrate several sources of image and non-image
information into a single model. Also at CMU, he was involved in the Structure
Literature Image Finder (SLIF) project, a project which mined the academic
literature using both the text of the papers and the images therein. This
project was one of the finalists in the Elsevier Grand Challenge.

Luis also holds a BS and an MS from Instituto Superior Técnico, in Lisbon. His
MS research was on learning from noisy data with Bayesian networks. He is a
Fulbright Scholar, a Siebel Scholar, and has won multiple awards for academic
or research excellence.

Longer Version (Less Academic)
..............................

**This version is slightly out of date**

Luis was born in the coast city of Southampton.  Shortly thereafter, the family
moved to Lisbon, where Luis grew up. A series of fortunate coincidences brought
him to the German School of Lisbon where he obtained his Abitur (final German
high school diploma).

He went on to study computer science at the Technical University of Lisbon.
Before finishing his degree, he spent one year in Vienna as an exchange
student. Although Luis had initially planned to graduate and move on to an
industry job, intellectual curiosity led him to enrol in graduate courses as
electives. His interest spiked, upon graduation, he enrolled in the master's
program (the Technical University of Lisbon offered the possibility of carrying
the credits over, in effect merging the end of a bachelor with the start of the
Masters program).

He wrote his dissertation about theoretical work on machine learning problems
(how to handle noisy data for certain parameter estimation problems). At the
same time, he came into contact with people working on bioinformatics and
starting attending their research presentation.

This field attracted him. Here were large, complex, unsolved problems. Problems
which were both theoretically challenging and of huge practical importance as
they cross over to medicine. To prepare himself for this, he entered the CMU-U.
Pittsburgh Ph.D. program in Computational Biology. He hopes to build up his
skills and knowledge so as to be able to become a future researcher with an
impact.

Reminded always of Mark Twain's advice to not let schooling interfere with
one's education, Luis has taken care to participate in a mix of side projects
and hobbies. He has participated in the university's theatre group with which
he travelled to international festivals to play. He has received one a prize in
a short story competition and also written open source software for the KDE
project. He has taught computer usage in underprivileged neighbourhoods and
designed webpages for nonprofits.

Photos
......

If you need photos of me (for press purposes &c), please check `this page
</photos>`__.

