title: Biography
url: biography
categories: about-me
---

Biography
=========

Shorter Version
...............

Luis Pedro Coelho is a PhD candidate in computational biology at Carnegie
Mellon University. He is interested in computational biology that is both
theoretically well-grounded and yields insights into real systems. Luis has a
BS and MS in computer science from Instituto Superior Técnico. He is a
Fulbright Scholar and has won multiple awards for academic or research
excellence.

Outside academia, Luis has been involved in theatre (having produced the
student group at IST and starred in several productions), as well as received a
prize in a short story competition. He has taught computer usage in
underprivileged neighbourhoods and designed Webpages for nonprofits. In Summer
2010, was in Mozambique, volunteering with local organisations there (see
`beiraproject.org <http://beiraproject.org>`_).

Luis can be found at `http://luispedro.org <http://luispedro.org>`_

Longer Version (Academic)
.........................

Luis Pedro Coelho is a PhD candidate in computational biology at Carnegie
Mellon University. His work is focused on automatic understanding of large
collections of bioimage data.

Previously, at CMU, he was involved in the Structure Literature Image Finder
(SLIF) project, a project which mined the academic literature using both the
text of the papers and the images therein. This project was one of the
finalists in the Elsevier Grand Challenge (4 out of 70 teams were present at
the final).

Before coming to CMU, Luis earned a BS and an MS from Instituto Superior
Técnico, in Lisbon. His MS research was on learning from noisy data with
Bayesian networks.

Longer Version (Less Academic)
..............................

Luis was born in the coast city of Southampton.  Shortly thereafter, the family
moved to Lisbon, where Luis grew up. A series of fortunate coincidences brought
him to the German School of Lisbon where he obtained his Abitur (final German
high school diploma).

He went on to study computer science at the Technical University of Lisbon.
Before finishing his degree, he spent one year in Vienna as an exchange
student. Although Luis had initially planned to graduate and move on to an
industry job, intellectual curiosity led him to enrol in graduate courses as
electives. His interest spiked, upon graduation, he enrolled in the master's
program (the Technical University of Lisbon offered the possibility of carrying
the credits over, in effect merging the end of a bachelor with the start of the
Masters program).

He wrote his dissertation about theoretical work on machine learning problems
(how to handle noisy data for certain parameter estimation problems). At the
same time, he came into contact with people working on bioinformatics and
starting attending their research presentation.

This field attracted him. Here were large, complex, unsolved problems. Problems
which were both theoretically challenging and of huge practical importance as
they cross over to medicine. To prepare himself for this, he entered the CMU-U.
Pittsburgh Ph.D. program in Computational Biology. He hopes to build up his
skills and knowledge so as to be able to become a future researcher with an
impact.

Reminded always of Mark Twain's advice to not let schooling interfere with
one's education, Luis has taken care to participate in a mix of side projects
and hobbies. He has participated in the university's theatre group with which
he travelled to international festivals to play. He has received one a prize in
a short story competition and also written open source software for the KDE
project. He has taught computer usage in underprivileged neighbourhoods and
designed webpages for nonprofits.

Photos
......

If you need photos of me (for press purposes &c), please check `this page
</photos>`_.

